---
title: |

  Thomas Sulkiewicz - Curriculum Vitae
---

### **how i can best help your organisation** 

-   Providing technical leadership and steering technical teams towards
    delivering infrastructure solutions

-   Providing technical reviews of infrastructure designs and solution
    architectures

-   Maintaining technical oversight over large infrastructure projects

-   Bridging the communications gap between technical and non-technical
    staff.

-   Developing or assisting in the development of infrastructure
    solutions. Taking into account: the business processes,
    organisational structure, the user experience, the long-term
    lifecycle, and the cybersecurity aspects of a solution.

### **Career overview and goals**

With over 20 years of experience in Information Technology I have worked
in almost every facet of the industry, including solutions architecture
and design, Microsoft/Linux systems engineering, software
engineering/development, business process engineering, and
people/process management. I particularly enjoy workshopping a new
infrastructure solution and then keeping watch over it as its being
built.

My strengths and key technologies are:

-   Overseeing the architecture/high-level design and implementation of
    infrastructure projects.

-   Developing infrastructure solutions, specialising network
    infrastructure.

-   A technical understanding of how infrastructure technologies work
    and how to best put them to use.

-   Understanding design principles and best practices around network
    infrastructure and systems development

-   Troubleshooting technical issues related to new and existing
    infrastructure solutions

My current goals are to continue to provide technical leadership,
guidance and oversight to infrastructure delivery projects.

### **Professional Experience**

Oct 2020 -- Current **Commonwealth Bank of Australia**

**Network Security Designer**

A technical consultant for divestment projects within CBA. Part of the
wealth and divestment portfolio, I work closely with project managers,
architects, engineers, executive managers, and product owners, to ensure
that the technical elements of a solution align across various teams.

Responsibilities and projects:

-   Acting as the networking subject matter expert and network architect
    for divestment infrastructure projects.

-   Developing infrastructure solutions and technical designs related to
    divestment projects.

-   Liaising with various internal technical teams and external partners
    to align their efforts towards a common goal

-   Maintaining a technical understanding of a project through
    solutioning workshops and design/architecture reviews.

-   Advising project stakeholders on how to adhere to the bank's
    cybersecurity frameworks and reference architectures.

-   Acting as an escalation point for technical concerns related to
    divestment projects.

-   Developing strong working relationships with the Bank's technical
    teams, project stakeholders, and external partners.

-   Providing guidance to project managers on navigating through the
    organisational complexities of the bank.

-   Providing technical guidance on general break/fix issues within the
    bank.

Feb 2020 -- Oct 2020 **Macquarie Telecom**

**Network Automation Engineer**

Part of team tasked with architecting, designing, and developing the
automation capability for the organisation. This included: the
on-boarding of new customers, automating new services for customers,
developing automated interactions for systems logging and monitoring.
This role was 50% architecture/design and 50% software development.

Responsibilities and projects:

-   Developed an automated solution for onboarding and monitoring
    customers for the Internet Service Provider division of the
    organisation. Using Python and microservices architectures,
    developed a zero-touch onboarding process for new and existing ISP
    customers.

-   Assisted in developing the overall architecture of the
    organisation's network automation capability.

Feb 2019 -- Dec 2019 **NSW Department of Education**

**Senior Network Engineer**

Part of a project tasked with standardising the network infrastructure
across all public schools in New South Wales. This included developing
and running automated configuration processes, managing electrical
contractors, designing and configuring new wired/wireless network
infrastructure (Aruba), installing new internet circuits, and deploying
new firewalls (Palo Alto).

Responsibilities included:

-   Creating apps that were used by the network engineering team for day
    to day operations.

-   Creating Python scripts that automate the command-based
    configuration process on Cisco routers.

-   Developing Python scripts that interface with REST APIs on Palo Alto
    firewalls and Infoblox systems.

-   Troubleshooting and resolving technical issues related to network
    performance.

-   Reviewing a school's existing infrastructure and developing
    migration plans.

-   Systematically migrating public schools through a standardised
    process using Ansible and Python scripts.

-   Liaising with electrical contractors on-site to help integrate new
    network infrastructure in regional schools.

-   Supporting engineers in troubleshooting problematic migrations.

-   Mentoring the junior engineers to develop their technical skills and
    providing techniques to mitigate project risk.

-   Liaising with the regional support staff and project stakeholders to
    ensure each migration is a success.

-   Serving as an escalation point for stakeholders, pre and post
    migration.

Apr 2016 -- Oct 2018 **Commonwealth Bank of Australia**

**Network Perimeter Services -- On-boarding Manager**

Responsible for guiding project managers, technical staff, and agile
product owners on the steps required to implement new services into the
Bank. With the support of the cybersecurity and solutions teams, I was
responsible for designing the on-boarding processes for the Bank's
network perimeters. Prior to being the On-boarding manager I was a
Network Security Designer helping develop the Bank's IT solutions.

Responsibilities included:

-   Acting as a governance checkpoint for IT projects within the Bank,
    ensuring due diligence was completed prior to new services being
    integrated into the production environment.

-   Managing the on-boarding processes for network security
    infrastructure throughout the Bank (firewalls, load balancers, proxy
    servers, API gateways).

-   Supporting a team of 47 Network Security Engineers, both onshore and
    offshore.

-   On-boarding new staff, facilitated their learning, provided guidance
    through the bank's processes and monitored their development.

-   Serving as an escalation point for project managers and product
    owners, mediated conflict between engineers and project teams.

-   Helping create various IT solutions as a Network Security Designer,
    including enhancements to an enterprise content management system,
    and a publicly accessible API gateway. Technologies included: AWS,
    Palo Alto, VMware NSX, Cisco, and F5.

-   Creating efficient on-boarding processes and helping automate their
    workflows through Service-now.

-   Reducing the Bank's project costs by developing an offshore Network
    Security Engineering team to support our local Engineers.

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   Helping design a series of automated workflows to help streamline
    on-boarding processes. The tools included: Algosec, Jira, and
    Confluence.

Jan 2015 -- Apr 2016 **Macquarie Bank**

**Network Architect / Engineer**

Part of a team of 3 network specialists responsible for the design and
implementation of new Internet gateways worldwide using Palo Alto
hardware. Created and peer-reviewed designs and architectural
specifications related to internet gateways and DMZs. Implemented and
reviewed network integrations with the help of AT&T managed services.
Ensured network diagrams and deliverables were accurate and current.

Responsibilities included:

-   Designing and building a new standardised DMZ in datacentres and
    international offices to support the Bank's outsourcing and cloud
    strategy.

-   Designing and building the network infrastructure to support a
    standardised service offering for Office365 and future cloud based
    services, including a multi-zone DMZ with micro segmentation.

-   Supervising international infrastructure deployment projects with
    the help of local resources.

-   Organising and providing technical leadership to multiple
    engineering teams to assist in infrastructure migrations.

May 2014 -- Dec 2014 **Roads and Maritime Services -- Transport for NSW
/ UXC Connect**

**Network Support Team Lead / Senior Network Engineer**

Senior member of an outsourced team responsible for over 700 separate
sites throughout NSW. Sites included: 1 traffic management centre, 2
data centres, head and regional offices, motor registries, mobile road
works sites, remote networks, and Heavy vehicle checking stations. Based
permanently at Roads and Maritime Services and Transport for NSW. This
role was 100% operational.

Responsibilities included:

-   Team Leader for 3 network engineers.

-   Providing the last line technical support for a predominately Cisco
    network infrastructure.

-   Regularly advising RMS on the technical requirements for integrating
    new services into the network.

-   Ensuring UXC Connect met Service Level Agreements with RMS / TfNSW.

-   Managing Priority 1 and 2 incidents to resolution.

-   Problem management and proactive network maintenance.

-   Overseeing and reviewing handovers between the project and
    operational teams.

-   Assisting level 1 and level 2 support staff with network
    troubleshooting incidents.

-   Creating end of month and ad hoc performance reports for the
    customer and UXC senior management.

March 2012 -- Jan 2014 **University of Western Sydney**

**Network Architect/Engineer** 

Responsible for developing network solutions supporting over 25,000
staff and students. Main responsibilities included technical leadership
on upgrade and deployment infrastructure projects.

Responsibilities included:

-   Providing 3rd and 4th line of support for wireless, routing,
    switching, DNS, DHCP infrastructure issues.

-   Developing an extensive architecture and design for wifi
    controllers, and wireless access point (wap) infrastructure.

-   Liaising with networking vendors to determine appropriate business
    solutions

-   Migrating to a new integrated IP address management system across
    all 9 campuses.

-   Regularly providing advice to executive staff when developing IT
    roadmaps and network architecture strategies.

-   Providing expert advice to various university departments on network
    infrastructure capabilities and potential possibilities.

-   Redesigning and enhancing the wireless infrastructure across all
    university campuses to accommodate for the University's "blended
    learning" strategy, which helped staff and students move towards the
    use of tablets in the classroom curriculum, based on Juniper
    hardware.

-   Developing new wireless tuning techniques that proved very effective
    in boosting access point range and performance.

-   Upgrading the University's DNS/DHCP/NTP infrastructure across all
    campuses.

-   Enhancing and adopting new change management processes throughout
    the University's IT departments, following the ITIL framework.

April 2010 -- March 2012: **Toshiba Australia Pty Ltd**

**Senior Network Engineer** 

Responsible for many network projects and provided 3^rd^ level support
throughout Australia and New Zealand.

Responsibilities included:

-   Improving network performance by redesigning the routing and
    switching for Australia and New Zealand, based on BGP, EIGRP and
    OSPF routing protocols and route redistribution.

-   Designing and deploying a high performance, highly secure, centrally
    managed, digital certificate based wifi network for Australia and
    New Zealand. Based on 802.11n, and Cisco Wireless LAN controllers.

-   Creating policies and procedures for wifi deployment use across
    Australia and New Zealand.

-   Designing and deploying a SSL VPN remote access service structured
    around digital certificate authentication. Based on Microsoft PKI
    and Cisco ASA Firewalls.

-   Refreshing the organisation's external facing services by designing
    and implementing new external firewalls.

-   Centralising all of Toshiba's access control for network equipment
    and web-based services using Cisco ISE servers.

-   Designing and deploying an Intrusion Prevention System to protect
    the organisation's DMZ services from constant attack.

### **Academic Education** 

2003 -- 2005: **University of Western Sydney (UWS)**

**Master of Computing**

-   Studied various aspects of network management, wireless networks
    theory, network security, project planning, network routing and
    switching theories, systems analysis and design, and emerging
    network technologies.

-   Completed in-depth research on network management and cryptography
    theory for secure Internet communications.

2000 -- 2003: **University of Western Sydney (UWS)**

**Bachelor of Business (major:** **Computing and Information Systems)**

-   Studied business administration topics such as accounting,
    management, business law, public relations, and business economics.

-   Majored in Information systems. This included the study of IT
    project management, systems analysis and design, and software
    engineering.

-   Studied the progression of the systems development lifecycles and
    the development of trends in the industry.

### **Industry Certifications** 

-   2020: AWS Certified Solutions Architect (Associate) -- certification
    > ID: AWS00846266 - **AWS**

-   2019: The Open Group Architecture Framework 9 certified --
    > certification ID 132981 - **TOGAF**

-   2018: Algosec Certified Expert - **ACE**

-   2018: Algosec Certified Administrator - **ACA**

-   2015: EC-Council - Certified Ethical Hacker, (CNSS 4013a certified,
    > certification number: ECC22200358705) - **CEH**

-   2015: Palo Alto Accredited Configuration Engineer -- **ACE**

-   2010: Cisco Certified Internetwork Expert written exam -- **CCIE**
    > (partial)

-   2010: Cisco Certified Network Professional
    > (re-certified) -- **CCNP**

-   2007: Cisco Certified Network Professional -- **CCNP**

-   2007: Cisco Certified Network Associate (re-certified) -- **CCNA**

-   2005: Cisco Certified Network Associate (re-certified) -- **CCNA**

-   2003: Certified Novell Administrator -- **CNA**

-   2002: Cisco Certified Network Associate -- **CCNA**

-   2001: Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer (Windows NT4, TCP/IP,
    > Exchange 5.5) -- **MCSE**

-   2000: Cisco Certified Design Associate -- **CCDA**

### **hobbies and spare time**

-   Spending time with my son

-   Golf

-   Carpentry / woodworking

-   Running a discord channel for online social gatherings.
